# Assignment: Web-Based DB

Create a web page (or pages) by modifying the "cars" database example in Chapter 13 of Sebesta's text book that allows the owner of a used car dealership to track inventory. The example in the book simply provided a means to submit raw SQL queries to a MySQL database. You will create an HTML form-based interface. The user should not have to enter raw SQL commands.

The user must be able to complete the following tasks:

- Delete a car from the database.
- Add a car to the database. Use a menu to allow the user to specify the state (you don't need all 50 states). Use a set of checkboxes to allow the user to specify the equipment in the car.
- View the entire current inventory. The user should be able to sort the inventory by miles, year, or state.
- View the inventory that offers specified equipment. The user should be able to specify graphically which equipment. Again, the user should be able to sort the inventory by miles, year, or state.

You should use MySQL, HTML, and PHP to complete the assignment.

### Initializing the Sample DB

As a first step, get the book's sample database up and running on your own machine. If you haven't done so yet, you'll want to get a PHP-enabled Web server and MySQL server up and running on your machine. To do this you may want to find a WAMP or LAMP package.

One you have your servers up and running, create the book's sample database using the .sql files: **build_tables_cars.sql** and **fill_tables_cars.sql**. Inside your MySQL shell, first create the `cars` database, then `use` it, then `source` the two sql files in the order given. Try some of the sample queries in the text to verify that your database is correct.

Next, set up the simple web-based interface to the cars database that is explained in chapter 14 of the text. You'll need to install two files on your web server: **carsdata.html** and **access_cars.php**. Test those to make sure you can query the cars database through your web server.

You should now be ready to implement your web-based interface to the cars DB.

### Submitting and Demoing Your Page:

When you have completed the assignment, submit your site as a zip file to the drop box. Also in your zip file, include a text document (Word, etc.) named *CarDatabase* that contains screenshots demonstrating each of the required capabilities of the system. To keep your document small, you shouldn't be providing screenshots of the entire page, but only of the web page. The zip file should also contain your own versions of **build_tables_cars.sql** and **fill_tables_cars.sql** so that I can create your database and run your web site on my own machine. The main page for your system should be **carsdata.html**.

You should avoid URL's that assume the location of the server. For example,

    <form action="http://localhost/Addcar.php" method="post">

is problematic, because I may have installed your site at a different URL. Instead, try using just relative URL's such as:

    <form action="Addcar.php" method="post">

The code you submit should log onto the SQL server using userID `root`, but no password.
